[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
We've got an amazing
program for you today.
Whitley Strieber is with us,
the author of "Communion."
That was the 1988
book that initiated
awareness of ET contacts
with millions of people.
He has since written seven books
about the contact experience,
the most recent of
which is "Them."
Whitley, welcome to the program.
>>WHITLEY STRIEBER: I'm
glad to be here, George.
It's always exciting to be here.
>>NOORY: You look great.
>>STRIEBER: Well, you do, too.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>STRIEBER: Great.
I've been terrific.
>>NOORY: Super.
Keeping busy?
>>STRIEBER: I am keeping busy.
I'm working on a new book.
And "Them" is just out
recently, so I'm a busy boy.
>>NOORY: Tell us about "Them."
>>STRIEBER: Well, "Them" is a
very interesting story there.
Years ago, when
communion first came out,
we began to get letters from
people who had had experiences.
>>NOORY: Similar to yours?
>>STRIEBER: Let's
put it this way.
It's a very broad range but
experiences with the beings
with the great big black eyes.
That was the connecting tissue.
And she said, we've got
to save these letters.
I said, how can we?
The post office
was pouring them.
The postmen were pouring
them in heaps on the floor--
>>NOORY: It's like Santa
Claus letters, right?
>>STRIEBER: Well,
yeah, but the problem
was these were very
personal stories.
And they all had names and
addresses all over them,
so you couldn't
just discard them.
And I did not know what to do.
I did not expect this.
I expected the usual author
response of 20 or 30 letters,
not 10,000 a week, which is--
so I said, how can we--
I can't possibly read
all these letters.
And she said, well, I can.
And she was telling the truth.
She did.
She hired a secretary,
Lori Barnes.
And they worked on those
letters for 15 years.
And Anne would show
me all of the letters
she thought I needed to read.
And in that process, I learned
that this is an incredibly
complicated, varied experience.
It is the most
complex experience
human beings have ever had.
We published a book called
"The Communion Letters."
But as the years passed, I
learned more and more and more.
And then I have in them
the core of the book
is 11 letters of those letters.
And they are all
analyzed with all
of the information and insight
I have gained in the past 25
years.
>>NOORY: Some of the
information, Whitley,
in the letters would say what?
>>STRIEBER: Oh my
goodness, George.
I'll give you an example.
And this is very typical.
Multiple witnesses
experiences are very typical.
They're not unusual.
A family of, I believe, five
had a series of encounters
at their home over
a two-day period.
The letter-- Anne
called the letter.
She said, this one
is very interesting.
And she called it the visitors
in the trees because they lived
in a house which had a
very steep hill behind it,
meaning that there were trees
growing right behind the house.
And when you looked
out the back windows,
you saw into those trees.
And the first evening,
nothing unusual happened.
One or two things that were
a little unusual happened.
The second morning,
a little more
happened that was
rather unusual but not
enough to where anyone would
think more than give it
a passing thought.
But then the wife goes to the
grocery store and comes back.
And the family are
out in the backyard
because they say there are these
little beings up in the trees.
And it was the Greys.
And they were up--
a number of them
were up in a tree.
And they'd built a little
platform in the tree.
So she and her oldest
daughter went upstairs on
to the second floor.
And they could look at them
out the bathroom window.
But then one of
the Greys pointed
some kind of an instrument
at them, and it scared them.
And they went away
from the window.
And it went on like that
until the end of the day.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>STRIEBER: And their story
is analyzed in this because--
in the book "Them" because when
you look carefully at the story,
you find that not only is it
entangled in ancient myth,
our own myths, but also it is
a carefully designed process
of exposure of these beings
to the woman, to the mother,
in such a way that she
would remember everything.
Because it's very hard
for the human mind
to retain memories of things
that it has never seen before.
It's really hard.
And that's the new
part of the book
because it goes through the
relationship to mythology.
And it also talks about how they
structured the whole encounter
to make sure that the wife
would be able to tell the story
and write it down.
>>NOORY: How did you sift
through all these letters
to pick these kinds of stories?
>>STRIEBER: You would
have had to meet Anne,
and then you would know
immediately how that was done.
It was not done by me.
She was the one who sifted
through all these letters
and her secretary, Lori.
The letters, for
years, were stored
in a storage space
in San Antonio
because no one
was-- no one cared.
But I thought these
letters are very important
and someone will care.
Now, the letters are
in a beautiful archive
at Rice University in
Houston and beautifully
cared for and curated by
the University's Archival
Department.
And they've all been digitized.
And as we speak, they're working
to anonymize the letters so
that there will be a digital
copy of the whole archive that's
anonymized and that can be used
by scholars and by the public.
And I can hardly
wait to see what
happens when we do things like
apply artificial intelligence
to these letters.
>>NOORY: Your book, "Them,"
is an amazing instrument
corroborating what's been
happening since the beginning
of time to all these people.
>>STRIEBER: Well, it
is because the thing
is that we think of the
close encounter experience
as a moment of contact.
But that's not what it is.
I mean, when I say
a moment of contact,
that started in the late '40s
and has been building ever
since.
It's not contact
that's happening.
It's realization
We are realizing that
this is part of human life
and always probably has been.
>>NOORY: Are these
cases all similar
where there's an abduction,
that they're taken?
>>STRIEBER: No, the
similarity in the cases
is the way the beings
look for the most part.
In the letters, there are a
huge variety of different events
that happen.
Well, I'll give you
another example.
A man I knew, we
had mutual friends.
And when I started
to talk about what
had happened to me, to
my friends, one of them
said, well, I know someone who
had a very strange experience,
too.
It turns out-- and I think
anyone can agree with this--
if you ask three or
four of your friends
if they've had a
strange experience,
they either will have had
or know someone who did.
>>NOORY: Or know somebody.
Exactly.
>>STRIEBER: So I was
introduced to this man.
He was a psychologist.
He was also one of the
leading experts on perception.
He wasn't a clinical
psychologist,
but he worked in the science of
understanding human perception.
And he also had what's
called exquisite vision,
which is better
than 20/20 vision.
He could see the moons of
Jupiter on a clear night.
>>NOORY: With his eyes?
>>STRIEBER: With his eyes.
With his eyes, exactly.
>>NOORY: No telescope?
>>STRIEBER: No telescope.
So he was unusual.
And this is what's so
critical about this.
He was chosen on purpose,
I'm sure, by the Greys
because they knew
already that this would--
that he would come
into contact with me.
And here was a man, an
expert on perception,
a PhD psychologist, who
also had superb vision.
And here is what he saw.
He was driving home down
the Grand Central Parkway
past LaGuardia Airport in one
evening, an October evening,
I believe.
He saw coming toward him--
and of course, it's jam-packed.
It's rush hour.
And so at nosebleed
altitude coming toward him
and looking like it's about
to land on the highway, a jet.
And he thinks, my God,
they've missed the runway
because LaGuardia Airport
is just right there.
They think they're
on the runway.
But this is going
to be a catastrophe.
But as it goes over his
car, he sees that it is not
a jet, that it is--
he said it looked like a
cardboard, a giant cardboard
model of a jet.
But it wasn't real.
And he said, it was the
strangest thing I'd ever seen
and what it was doing in flying
and how it could even fly.
I was just mystified.
And then as he looks down,
he notices on the roadside
this sign up on the shoulder.
And there are hieroglyphs
flashing past on the sign.
And he thinks,
what in the world?
No one can read that.
And then he sees on the
little back up the shoulder,
just in the shadows
beside the road,
a circle of people standing.
And he thinks, I'm going to
find out what in the world.
This is really highly strange.
So he pulls off
onto the shoulder.
And he walks over to
this circle of people.
And he says, they're all
standing there with their heads
down.
And suddenly, what he's
described as a little dwarf,
which I think we all know what
that was, comes up to him--
he's never had any
contact experience,
knows nothing
about any of that--
looks up at him
and says, get out
of here, which he decides to do.
And he gets the hell
back in his car.
>>NOORY: Without any
hesitation at all.
>>STRIEBER: None whatsoever.
No, he was agreeing.
He agreed that was a good idea.
And so he drove off and
told his family the story.
And it's one of those stories
where people say, yeah, wow,
that's really weird.
And you go on to the next thing.
Then I came into his friend's--
I think they were cousins,
actually, his cousin's life.
And I told him my story
that would become the book
"Communion" a year or so later.
He said, well, you've got to
meet him because he had this.
So that's another example.
Now, is that an abduction?
No, not an abduction at all.
>>NOORY: But a
great contact story.
>>STRIEBER: An
incredible contact story.
>>NOORY: You have a story
of a woman in Australia
who may have been abducted.
>>STRIEBER: This is
a more classic case,
and it haunts me to this
day because it's also
a story that I have lived
and many people have lived.
Here's the situation.
She is vacuuming her
floor in the morning.
She lives in a
suburb of Australia.
She's a schoolteacher.
Anyway, her husband's
gone off to work.
And she has the
day off that day.
So he has left.
She's vacuuming.
And she notices movement.
And she looks over.
And standing beside the couch
is a Grey, the classic Grey.
>>NOORY: Typical.
3-foot tall, big
head, dark eyes.
>>STRIEBER: Right.
And beside him are two shorter
beings like the dwarf ones,
the wide faces.
But they're wearing brown cowls.
And she receives in her
mind the instruction,
you will come with us.
But she did not want
to go with them.
And so she says, I won't.
And he says, you cannot resist.
You will come with us.
And there follows a tussle
where she turns around and tries
to run out of the house.
She's dragged back with
the mind, not physically.
She ends up down on
her hands and knees,
trying to get out of that house.
And she's pulled back again
and again and told again
and again, you
will come with us.
Finally, she finds
herself, her husband
standing in front of her.
And she thinks, thank
God he came home.
And she embraces him.
And she can smell his sweater.
And he just disappears
in her arms, not there.
And they repeat, you
will come with us.
Then, seemingly with no lapse
in time, her husband is back.
And she at first doesn't believe
it's really him, but it is him.
And hours have passed
that she has no memory
of those hours at all.
And the last line of this
letter sums up a question
that so many people have,
where did that time go?
She never found out.
She tried hypnosis.
She tried breathing techniques
and all kinds of things.
She never found out.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
Tell us the story about
"The Call of the Morlocks."
>>STRIEBER: "The Call of the
Morlocks," what a story that is,
George.
The story I just told
about the man who
saw the beings on
the roadside, there
was another man who
read that story.
And we had something called the
communion letter at the time.
And he read the story
in our newsletter.
We don't have it
anymore, we did then.
He immediately
recognized everything
because he had seen it, too.
He was a second witness.
And he told his story,
which was very similar.
But the difference was that
he had seen the first man
that I talked about a moment
ago get out of his car
and walk over to these.
And he had done the same thing
and had been stopped and told,
if you don't get out of
here, we will hurt you.
>>NOORY: A threatening--
visitation.
>>STRIEBER: Yeah.
It was very
threatening because we
will hurt you coming
from someone like that,
that might mean a great deal.
>>NOORY: That's
not common, is it?
>>STRIEBER: No,
no, it's not common
that they say-- they don't
threaten people much.
But then again, they
don't need to, do they?
Because they're usually
in complete control
of the situation.
He left the area as well.
But I call it "Call of the
Morlocks" for this reason.
There is a book called "The
Time Machine" by H.G. Wells.
And at the very end of time,
he builds his time machine
and goes through the
future, through war,
after war, and
mayhem and mayhem.
And finally, he comes to
a beautiful era of peace
where the people
are called the Eloi.
And they live in a beautiful
Garden of Eden-like setting.
Everything is provided for them.
They've got plenty of
food, everything they need.
And he's really
relating to the Eloi.
And he's so glad that this is
how the human species first
ended up until the sirens start.
And the people all hypnotized
go into these dark,
cave-like structures--
>>NOORY: All in unison.
>>STRIEBER: --all in unison.
And underground are these
horrible misshaped creatures
called the Morlocks.
And the Morlocks are actually--
the Eloi are the
food of the Morlocks.
Now, I asked myself
the question,
who were those people
standing in the circle?
Did they know what they were
and what they were doing?
And how many of us end up
standing in circles like that?
How many of us do
things with the visitors
that we know nothing about?
And that's why it's called
"Call of the Morlocks."
>>NOORY: When this
episode happened to you,
did you know what was going on?
>>STRIEBER: The
first experience?
>>NOORY: The first time.
>>STRIEBER: I certainly didn't.
I had seen something in
the doorway of my bedroom--
a very odd figure with a big
sort of like a World War I army
helmet on but with a wider
brim and a shield on its chest.
And yeah, I was looking at that
and thinking, what is this?
This is not real.
Am I dreaming?
And then the next thing
I knew, I woke up.
Something was wrong.
I was aware of the fact that
there was someone in the room.
And when I fully
opened my eyes, I
wasn't even in my room anymore.
I was in another room, a
little crowded, round room.
And there were what I perceived
to be huge insects in the room.
And my initial thought
was, it's a nightmare.
And I actually
crossed my mind, maybe
I could write a novel based
on this, a horror novel,
because I had written some.
I hadn't written them in years.
But I'd written some in the
early part of my career.
I couldn't make it go away.
In other words, I
kept waking myself up,
but I was still in the room
and still with these beings.
And gradually, it became
impossible to determine--
I couldn't understand it.
But it seemed like it was a
real thing that was happening.
>>NOORY: How close was
the movie, "Communion,"
with Christopher Walken based
on your book, to Your Reality?
>>STRIEBER: Well, certain
parts of the movie
are emotionally authentic.
The close encounters
isn't the same.
It doesn't feel like what
happened to me at all.
I didn't dance, for example.
First of all, as
my wife would have
told you had she been
with us, he is no dancer.
And second, I'm not Christopher
Walken, in other words.
And he loves to
dance in his movies.
And I don't blame him, because
he's a wonderful dancer.
But I don't dance.
And the whole tone
of the movie was--
he was a little bit more
overstated than I am.
I tend to be rather quiet.
And of course, they're
making a movie.
And the main character can't be
the Silent Sam, which I usually
am.
And so they made it
into another character,
and I can't blame him for that.
It's not accurate, though.
The one thing that's accurate
is the emotional authenticity
of it.
>>NOORY: And you
could feel that?
>>STRIEBER: Yeah,
I felt that way,
the way Chris is
when he shoots off
the gun in the house and stuff.
I never shot a gun
off in the house.
But all of that,
that's very real.
>>NOORY: What do you think,
Whitley, the hybridization
program is?
It's a cloning program.
What's going on.
>>STRIEBER: Oh, George,
what a question.
I had semen removed
from my body.
The nerve that causes
sexual emotions
was stimulated electrically,
which can be done.
It's not science fiction.
It's done all the time
in animal husbandry.
And it used to be
before Viagra that it
would be used for men who
otherwise could not succeed.
And that was done to me.
And they took
ejaculate out of me.
Many women report eggs
being taken from them.
Other men have the
same experience I did.
And when you think to yourself,
Why would they be doing that?
it would seem to
me also women have
fetuses removed and disappear.
You think to yourself, well,
why would they be doing that?
And the answer is they're doing
it because they're using the--
I think they're making hybrids.
>>NOORY: Why, though?
I agree with you, but why?
>>STRIEBER: I think that
they are trying to join us.
I have speculated--
>>NOORY: Or take over.
>>STRIEBER: I'm not sure that--
I think when I say join
us, the two species
would become so symbiotic that
wouldn't even be an issue.
In other words, we would be one.
And that's why she called
the book "Communion"
because she thought
that would be--
and she didn't think it would
necessarily be a bad thing.
But I'm unsure.
I really am unsure about that.
I've been with
them now for years.
They've been part of my
life for a very long time.
And I think of them as--
well, I think the bodies
they have are something
that they enter like we
would enter a diving suit
or put on clothes, that
they are not basically
a physical species.
I have thought to
myself, maybe what
we have here is a
species that went extinct
and has built something
that enables it to penetrate
into the physical
world again and is now
trying to meld with us, to
in effect come back to life.
>>NOORY: Could that be
they need us to rebuild?
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, they need us
because it's obvious if they're
taking sexual material from us.
>>NOORY: But you don't think
there's anything nefarious here?
>>STRIEBER: I would
not go that far.
I don't know.
The answer is I don't
know the answer to that.
I would say that we need to
try to cut the cards ourselves.
We need to try to keep
control of the situation
as best we can because
there have been
some indications that
there are hybrids
and that they aren't
particularly friendly toward us
or very scared of us, perhaps.
And a lot of people
think they are hybrids.
But I've met a few.
And one thing
about them at least
that I've encountered that
is immediately obvious
is that they can
enter your mind.
They're telepathic.
>>NOORY: Do they
know what they are?
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, the ones
I've met all definitely do.
And they stick together.
>>NOORY: I mean, you had
one living on your property
in New York, didn't you?
>>STRIEBER: We did.
That was right before we
left and moved to Texas.
I guess it was in 1995,
1996, something like that.
We began to notice
cigarette smoke
in the air, which was
disturbing because the house was
fairly isolated.
It was not that isolated,
but it was somewhat isolated.
And there was no
one around there
near the house who
should be smoking.
And by this time, I
was pretty famous.
And so we were nervous about it.
And then we would find
these places in the woods
where there were hundreds
of cigarette butts.
And then I found what
looked like a boy
sitting out in the woods
smoking cigarettes.
And I went up to him
because he was right just
below a stand of pitch pines
which are very flammable.
And I thought to myself,
I don't like that boy.
I mean, he looked like
11- or 12-year-old boy.
He's smoking, and he's
right near the pitch pines.
And so I walked over to him.
And I started to talk to him.
But by the time I had
gotten close to him,
there was obviously
something way, way off.
And I was about a mile
back in the woods.
Just me and him were the
only people back there.
And I leaned down and
I said, excuse me.
And he's sitting
there like this.
He goes, [GROANS].
And I think to myself,
time to go home.
I'm leaving this--
>>NOORY: Something's wrong here.
>>STRIEBER: Something's
very wrong here.
And I'm very far away.
So I go back to the house.
And then I tell Anne about him.
And he comes closer.
The next thing we know he's
standing in the woods at night.
Our swimming pool
was very private.
>>NOORY: You could see him?
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, we
could see him shadowy.
You knew he was there.
You could see him.
And the cigarette smoke smell
was very oppressive on nights
when the air was still.
So it was not pleasant
to have him around.
And--
>>NOORY: This is your acreage?
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, absolutely.
He's trespassing out the get-go.
And the pool was very private.
And we would skinny-dip in
the evenings quite often.
And we went skinny-dipping
after he had come up
and was hanging
out near the house.
And the woods were in full
leaf, so you couldn't see.
Beyond the deck,
you couldn't see.
It was an arbor.
In other words, there were
a lot of bushes and trees.
But behind that, it was
all open under the trees.
There was nothing growing
because it's too dark.
So we're skinny-dipping.
And he starts running
back and forth.
You can hear him
running back and forth,
cracking sticks, and gasping.
He could not talk and
obviously very upset
that we are naked and outdoors.
And you're not
going to skinny-dip
under circumstances like that.
No way.
So we went back in the house.
And that fun was ruined.
And we're saying to
ourselves, what in the world
is going on here.
It's like he's trying
to protect us somehow.
And so a few weeks
later, we leave.
And we go to Texas.
And lo and behold, we get-- now
we've lost the cabin because we
had a lot of--
the machinery of the culture
was really working against me.
And my book sales
had dried up, of even
my nonalien-related books.
We're living in a little
condo on the street corner,
literally on a street.
And it's got a porch.
And then there's a
cul-de-sac beside the porch.
And beyond that is a wall.
And the bedroom's right on
the other side of the wall.
So we're there.
And I'm thinking at least we've
left that weirdness behind
until one night I smell, not
even a week after we got there,
cigarette smoke.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>STRIEBER: And I think,
holy moly, that can't be.
But he stands in the
cul-de-sac at night.
I go out on the porch,
and he immediately
goes around the corner.
But I could see it was him.
>>NOORY: Same kid?
>>STRIEBER: Well,
that I can't say,
but he sure looked
like the same kid.
And he was doing
the same things.
So here he is again.
And I say, Anne, he's here.
And then I think,
we'll ignore it.
But then I feel him in my mind.
I can feel his--
it's uncanny, George.
There are no words
to express this
because it's not
a human experience
to feel another being
inside your own mind.
It's really weird.
So I'm not going
to sleep like that.
No way.
And so I install a
motion-sensitive light.
And oh, he's being
noticed by the neighbors.
Someone saw him climbing up one
of the walls of the building.
And he tore the spokes
out of the bicycle
tires of this nice young couple
who lived on the second floor.
And he got up on their deck.
What in the world
was that about?
And then it develops.
He's actually living in
the condo right behind ours
with these two men who--
they were very weird
and creepy men.
>>NOORY: They were all hybrids.
>>STRIEBER: I don't
know what they were.
Maybe they were hybrids.
But if so, they were
hybridized with demons, not
with human beings.
They were really,
really, really scary.
So I call the managing
agent of the condo
and I say that these
people are living there.
And I would like to
know more about--
>>NOORY: Who they were.
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, because
he stands outside our place
at night, et cetera.
And the managing agent says--
I give him the apartment number.
He says, well, there's
no one living there.
I said, well there are
three people living there.
And he said, well, listen,
I'm going to give you
the phone number of the owner.
You can call him if you
see if he's got tenants
because being a
condo, they don't
have to necessarily
report to the management
whether or not
they've got tenants.
So I call the guy.
He's in Houston.
He says, I don't have tenants.
I just use that
when I go up there
for business in San Antonio.
I said, well, there's
three people living
in it, two men and a boy.
He said, well, you're kidding.
I said, nope, they are there.
And the boy is causing trouble.
He's vandalizing things--
>>NOORY: In the neighborhood.
>>STRIEBER: --in the condo.
He said, well, I'm going to take
care of it, don't you worry.
So a couple days
pass and there's
an eviction notice on the door.
By now, everybody in the condo
knows about this weird situation
with these men.
They don't know the mental,
mind stuff or anything.
And they certainly don't
know the boy was in my woods.
But they do know that
there's this weird boy
and these men are creepy.
Everyone knows that.
And they also know now
that they are being evicted
because they're squatters.
And they go around, the
two men, not the boy,
go around from
door to door trying
to sell the guy's
furniture to us.
>>NOORY: Holy Toledo.
>>STRIEBER: I mean,
what is this about?
A totally out to
lunch and no idea
of what they're doing,
obviously have no money.
And this is what they
can come up with.
If they're aliens and
they're trying to live here,
they got a lot of work to
do because this is not--
>>NOORY: What happened?
Did they end up
just disappearing?
>>STRIEBER: The two
men just disappeared.
But the boy, one morning
during that time,
I was out in the little
garden that we had.
And suddenly he goes,
bursts around the corner
and goes marching
off down the street.
And he's got the cigarette
in the center of his mouth.
And I think to myself, he
doesn't even know how to smoke.
He grabs the cigarette
out of his mouth
and holds it beside him
the second he heard--
he obviously heard my thought.
And off he goes.
Now, this is a real
story, you understand?
This is the real thing.
>>NOORY: I believe it.
>>STRIEBER: This is what
happens in the real world.
A lot else happens too.
And not all of it is creepy
like this, thank goodness.
But this is my
experience of hybrids.
>>NOORY: At what
point, Whitley, did
the military get involved
with encountering ETs?
>>STRIEBER: Well,
after I wrote them,
I discovered that an Italian
researcher had nailed down
the fact--
and I say nailed down, his
research is excellent--
that there was a UFO
crash in Italy in 1933.
That UFO after the war--
during the war, it was examined
by the Germans and the Italians.
They couldn't make
anything of it.
After the war was taken to
the Air Materiel Command,
they couldn't make
anything of it either.
And I doubt that they
even thought of it
as an alien spacecraft.
They just didn't
know what it was.
And--
>>NOORY: Probably
thought it was ours.
>>STRIEBER: Well, no, I think
the Germans thought it was ours,
and we thought it was theirs.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>STRIEBER: And it turned out
to be somebody else's entirely.
But in any case, that
was already there,
I'm pretty sure, and being
ignored because nobody
knew what to make of it.
When the Roswell
incident happened--
>>NOORY: In 1947.
>>STRIEBER: Yeah, and that
cast a different light on it
because what
crashed in Roswell--
you understand?
One of my uncles was an
officer at Air Materiel
during this period and was there
when the material was brought
in, so I understand and
I respect the Air Force's
situation.
It's a hopeless
situation they're in.
And I'm not going to dump
on them because they are--
I don't want to say it, but not
telling the truth about this.
General Arthur Exon, who was
a close friend of my uncle's,
not only did he
examine the materials,
he also experienced-- he
was witness to the bodies.
So this happened.
The bodies and the
materials were brought
to Wright Field from Roswell.
I mean, it's in my
family's knowledge.
And I'm sorry, but my
uncle was not a liar
and neither was General Exon.
So I will not be
dissuaded by people
claiming that didn't happen.
It did happen.
Now, you have to understand the
header Air Materiel at that time
was General Nathan Twining.
In 1946, General Twining had
been converted to Catholicism
by Padre Pio, the--
>>NOORY: Stigmata.
>>STRIEBER: --the Italian saint.
He was the commanding
officer of the--
I think it was the 15th Air
Force in Italy at the time.
And he encountered Padre
Pio and was very inspired
by him apparently.
It's hard to find that.
You won't find it on
his Wikipedia page
because the Air Force does
not like the religious beliefs
of its officers to be revealed
publicly because of respect
for separation of
church and state.
But you can find it.
And it is quite true.
He did convert to Catholicism.
So here he is, a recent
Catholic convert.
His confessor is Padre Pio.
And suddenly, they get
these materials and bodies.
Understand this is
not a time when we are
thinking in terms of aliens.
And so--
>>NOORY: The war had just
ended a couple of years--
>>STRIEBER: And we're
thinking in terms of threat.
These are all
warriors, these guys.
All these generals have been--
Curtis LeMay just blew
up Japan and burned it.
These are soldiers and
these are warriors.
And all of a sudden,
they decide--
so they decide
it's a scout ship.
And some of them fear that
these beings are demons
because the idea of
people from another world
is not really very--
not a very prominent idea,
but the idea that it's demons
and demons must
travel in conveyances,
unlike angels who can fly.
So these two things get into
the Air Force culture together.
One, the demons fear.
And two, scout ship
from another planet
may be the beginning
of an invasion.
That's the two things that
get into the Air Force
culture about this.
At the same time, they've got a
problem with the 509th Bomb Wing
in Roswell.
At that point, over in Europe,
Stalin has got 4,500,000
soldiers lined up along the
border that is just beginning
to be called the Iron Curtain.
NATO analysts are saying--
or Allied.
The NATO didn't exist yet.
Allied analysts are
saying they will
be able to reach the
channel in two weeks
and probably get England--
in six weeks, excuse
me, and probably get
England in another
few weeks after that.
They will not be stoppable.
Ironically, all of
them armed by Americans
using American weapons.
So the only thing
that's stopping them
is that little bomb
wing in Roswell
because that bomb wing
has the only operational,
deliverable atomic
weapons on the planet.
And Stalin knows
he does not have
radar systems and antiaircraft
systems sufficiently robust
to guarantee that at
least one of those bombers
won't reach Moscow.
>>NOORY: What an
incredible story, Whitley.
>>STRIEBER: So he wants to
know exactly what's really
going on at that airfield.
Something unknown
crashes 30 miles north.
It's thin paper and wood.
Of course, they think it's some
kind of a Russian spy craft.
>>NOORY: Or balloon.
>>STRIEBER: Or balloon.
Exactly.
And that it has some kind
of radiation detector
aboard because
the very top brass
and President Truman
apparently have a big secret.
The big secret is the 509th
is essentially a bluff.
>>NOORY: Was President Truman,
by the way, the first president
to become involved in UFOs?
>>STRIEBER: General Nixon said
to me, everyone from Truman
on down knew that
what we had found
was not of this world within
24 hours of our finding it.
That's what he said.
So the answer would be yes.
Anyway, they don't have that
much operational atomic hardware
available.
I don't know how
many bombs they had.
But I have been told by reliable
sources that the 509th was not
fully operational and armed.
And that was exactly
what Stalin needed
to know because if he had
found that out and been sure
that he could take
the risk, he would
have invaded Western Europe.
So you can see the stakes
were fantastically high.
And they were absolutely
desperate to find out
exactly what that material
was and why it was there.
And that was why it was--
>>NOORY: And where it came from.
>>STRIEBER: --literally rushed
to Air Materiel to be analyzed.
And it was at Air Materiel
that it became obvious
that the bodies they had
brought in were not human.
>>NOORY: We have an
interesting clipping
I want you to take a look at.
It was from a newspaper in
1947 about the Air Force being
ordered to shoot down UFOs.
This is an actual real story.
>>STRIEBER: That's right.
That's a story that has
been buried, hasn't it?
>>NOORY: It has.
>>STRIEBER: Because
they were ordered
to try to shoot down UFOs.
And they did because
basically people talk about
combat air patrol.
What a combat air patrol is,
is an Air Patrol in an area
that is restricted
to aerial activity
by anyone, except recognized
and approved aircraft.
And when a combat air
patrol goes up and confronts
an aircraft that is not
approved and that aircraft
doesn't respond, then
his job is to open fire.
And I'm pretty sure
that's probably
what happened on a number
of different occasions.
And I go into that in
"Them" quite extensively.
We're rolling forward a
little bit from 1947 to 1952
because this was an order.
It was a standing order
that unidentified aircraft
that did not respond to
radio were to be shot down.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
There's a 1952 photograph
from "The Washington Post,"
I believe, that clearly shows
unidentified objects over
the capital.
>>STRIEBER: That's right.
>>NOORY: What was
that all about?
>>STRIEBER: Well, this
was the 1952 overflight
where for night after night,
there were these objects flying
over the capital.
And the Air Force was
frankly stating at the time
that they did not
know what they were.
At the same time, though,
another incident was taking
place, there is an area out at
the 12-mile limit where if you
enter that area and your
aircraft is not identified,
you don't identify
your aircraft,
it's considered hostile.
At the same time that these
overflights were happening,
which must have been incredibly
intimidating because we would
have known behind the
scenes by this time
that these were not
of human origin.
And we also knew a lot
about their flight abilities
and characteristics.
So that would have been very,
very concerning to the military
and to the whole defense
establishment and the president
much more than they let on.
But now what happens
is suddenly an object
is seen coming on fire over
the whole eastern seaboard
and going down in West Virginia.
>>NOORY: Like a meteor,
but it's not a meteor.
>>STRIEBER: It's no
way is it a meteor.
It's moving much too slowly.
Its trajectory is all wrong.
And two state
troopers on the ground
who saw it reported it
in as a crashing airplane
because it was not,
absolutely not a meteor.
Now, in West Virginia, in a
little town called Flatwoods,
some boys see it go
down and they go out
to see what's going on.
>>NOORY: Is that the
Flatwoods Monster story?
>>STRIEBER: Right.
We're getting there.
So they see it go down.
And they see this
terrifying monster
that they think of as a monster.
What it actually
probably was, was
an escape capsule from
the ship that had crashed.
And it had crashed because
it had been shot at out over
the Atlantic when it passed
the 12-mile limit and did not
identify itself.
Of course, what they
didn't understand
was, who knows if they
even know what radio is?
If they've developed another
method of communicating
wirelessly, they might not even
have gone down the radio path.
They might not even
have heard the message
or understood the message
if they did hear it.
>>NOORY: Probably never even
had a radio in their craft.
>>STRIEBER: Right.
But then press, of course, makes
light of the Flatwoods Monster.
[LAUGHS SARCASTICALLY]
But it probably
was just nothing more, nothing
but a prosaic thing, an escape
capsule from a damaged craft.
>>NOORY: Could it have been
the occupant in the capsule?
>>STRIEBER: There
was an occupant.
That's why it was
there, I'm sure.
The occupant-- no, no, it was
flying and maneuvering around.
And it had arms, but they were--
it was obviously
robotic, whatever it was.
And so my guess is
there was someone in it.
>>NOORY: I see.
Controlling it.
>>STRIEBER:
Controlling it, someone
who had been in the craft and
had escaped with this thing
and was probably picked
up some time later.
>>NOORY: Whitley, how do
people track you down?
>>STRIEBER: How do
they track me down?
It's easy.
I'm on unknowncountry.com.
That's my website.
My radio podcast is "Dreamland."
And the easiest way to
write me is to write me
at whitleystrieber.com.
I get every single email.
And I will answer
them as appropriate.
>>NOORY: And the book
"Them" is available?
>>STRIEBER: The book "Them"
is available in hardcover
and softcover on anywhere
books are sold online.
It's not so much in stores.
The Kindle is
available on Amazon.
And there's an audio book
read by me on Audible.
>>NOORY: Whitley, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>STRIEBER: George, it's
always such a pleasure.
You remain one of the
great interviewers.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: I have known Whitley
Strieber for well over 20 years.
His stories were
compelling then,
and they're even more
compelling today.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]